Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss feature matching.
But first I'd like to welcome you to more or less the unofficial halfway point of the course.
So far we've learned a lot of technical syntax but we haven't really been able to apply it to more complex
computer vision applications.
This is not the point in the course where I like to say we can begin to do quote unquote cool computer
vision applications things that are really applicable to real world situations.
So from now on we're really going to be focusing on using our technical knowledge and syntax skills
with open C-v to create programs that are directly applicable to realistic situations.
We had a kind of eat our vegetables first learning about things like edge detection and image processing
and just video basics but now we can really focus on some of the more complex and advanced algorithms
that open CV containers that are directly applicable to things like real world images.
And we're going to begin this by talking about feature matching.
We've already seen template matching to find objects within a larger image but it required an exact
copy of the image to be within the image you're looking for such as we're looking for the dog's face
within the larger image of the dog.
Often in real world situations you're not going to have the exact picture of that dog's face.
So what we're going to do then is move on to feature matching and what feature matching does is it basically
extracts defining key features from an input image using a lot of the techniques that we've already
learned things like corner edge detection and contrair detection.
And then using a distance calculation it's going to find all the matches and a secondary image.
And what this means is we are no longer required to have an exact copy of the target image beat within
the secondary image.
So going back to the dog example I can now get some sort of generic picture of that dog's face looking
to the side and we can then use feature matching to see if we have some sort of likely feature match
in a larger image.
I no longer need that exact template to be there.
So here's another example of that on the left hand side we have our target image that we're looking
for and notice here is just a box of some sort of preprocessed food and on the right image we have the
actual image that we're searching.
Notice that the box is rotated.
It's not the exact image and with feature matching we can actually link up and see key features and
then link to where they match.
The secondary image.
We no longer need to scan as we did in template matching for a exact match.
This means this is a really powerful technique for real world applications where you're only going to
have a base image that is not an exact copy of what you expect to see in the secondary image and we're
going to be checking out three methods the first being brute force matching with or be the Scripters
the second being brute force matching with Sif descriptors and the ratio test.
And then the third one being the Flann based matcher what we're going to be testing is just a generic
serial image and seeing if we can find it's matching box in a real world image of the cereal aisle.
OK.
Let's get started.
All right.
Here I am at the Jupiter lab.
I've opened up a new notebook and I went ahead and copied and pasted from the feature matching note
book.
These import lines that we're gonna be using as well as the display function.
Notice the display function already has the same map default as gray.
So I will be using this to show the images a little larger first.
Let's go ahead and read in the images.
The first image we're going to call resus because it's say Reese's puffs cereal box.
So I will say CB2 image read data and then if you start typing out recess you should see a recent Puff's
thought PMG and pasan a zero so you can read it in as a greyscale.
This is the queery image.
So we're going to be essentially asking for where it's matching in the secondary image.
Our target image.
So if we scroll down here we can see the box of Reese's puffs.
You should notice that it's not really a photo of a box of recent puffs it's an actual just kind of
printout of the fronts of some typical racist puffs.
So that's what's really nice about this method.
I don't need an exact photo or an exact template of what I expect to see in my target image.
So it's actually take a look at the target image.
We're going to call that image.
Cereals to image read and will say data and if you start typing out many you should see many serials
that they paid pasand zero there and then let's display what cereal looks like.
And here's the cereals.
Notice this is actually a real picture of a cereal aisle.
And we have tons of different cereal some of them.
The boxes are a little crooked.
They're not exactly angled exactly towards the camera so they're not.
And none of them are actually front facing in the exact same way.
This images if you look over here on the bottom left this is the Reeses puffs cereal box.
You should also notice that it's not it's not exactly the exact same cereal box.
If we come back up to this original image this one here has family size at the top of the recent puff
cereal box.
And this is just a normal box of recesses not family size.
So keep in mind some of these other boxes do have family size on them.
So lucky charms and cinnamon toast crunch and Cheerios.
These all say family size at the top of them.
So that may affect our feature matching.
We may get some matches on the family size but then we get some matches on this Reese's puffs cereal
as well.
So we'll be exploring all of that through the three different methods.
First of all I'm going to do.
It's called brute force detection with RB descriptors and the first thing we do is we actually create
the detector so we will say oh our A B is equal to C-v 2 and then say oh Arbi underscore create and
this is now our detector object.
And what we do is we find the key points and descriptors off of this object so we say Oh.
RB dot and then start typing at the text.
And if you tab auto complete you want the text and compute and we're going to pasan resus.
So the image that we're looking for and then the second première are going to pass and is none.
So it takes in a possible mask.
We're not actually masking anything here.
So we're going to say there is no mask and this returns back to things key points.
And then there are descriptions so if you take a shift tab here to take the key points and compute the
script there.
So those are the two things.
It's returning here which we will call K.P. 1 and descriptors as the last one we're going to copy and
paste this and do the exact same thing.
But for cereals.
And then we'll change these from one to K.P. to end these two.
All right.
So all we're doing here is we created this detection object which detects computes features and then
we ran it on both the resus and cereals.
Essentially the target image and the larger secondary image.
Once you've done that it's time to create the matching objects as brute force matching.
So you going to see where the most matching is taking place.
So I'll say B-F for brute force.
And then we say CB2 brute force matcher and then one of the arguments I can provide here is actually
it's not detailed in the docstring is the actual way it's going to detect those matches and we can use
a default which is CB2 norm underscore hamming and then we'll also specify cross-check equal to Troost
essentially just a bunch of default printers here.
And then what we have is we can actually check where the matches occur.
We will say matches is equal to B-F matches.
Sorry B-F match.
And you can tag autocomplete to make sure that's correct.
B.F. match.
And we're going to pass into the Scripters we passen descriptors of set 1 and the Scripters of set to.
So now we have our matches and then we're going to sort them in order of their distance.
Lots of different ways you can do this really come away and you see this in the documentation is to
use a land expression along with the sorted method.
So what they like to do in the documentation is state that matches is equal to sorted matches where
key is equal to lambda X colon X thought distance.
So what does that actually mean.
Sorry it's distance.
No es there.
Well let's take a fresh look.
This matches what it actually is.
They are a bunch of specialized match objects.
And if we take a look at just one of them.
So let's take a look at a single match here.
So we'll say matches 0 and then take a look at a single match dot and then hit tab and you'll see that
they have a bunch of attributes.
You have a training index query but more importantly they have this distance attribute and the distance
attribute essentially clarifies how good of a match it was.
So the less distance it has that means it's better of a match the more distance it has.
Essentially means it's a worse match.
So what we can do is we can actually then sort these by distance.
You could do it with a for loop.
So just going around calculating but this kind of a clean one liner way of doing that.
So instead of manually checking the distance and then appending it to a fresh list we can do is just
call the sorted pass and the matches and then pasand this keyword on sorted of how we actually want
to match them or sort them I should say we're going to sort them by that distance attribute.
So now that we have our matches these matches are now sorted by their distance attribute.
Then we're going to say Riis's matches is equal to.
And we actually have a convenient function called draw matches.
So given these match objects we can then draw them.
So we will say receives and then we provide K.P. one the key points on PCs then we say cereal.
Make sure you spell that right and then say the key points to for the cereal.
And then you can provide all the matches.
But if you actually checked the length of the matches after you sort them out we're going to say check
the length of matches.
There's two hundred sixty five matches.
That's probably too much to visually display.
So let's just choose maybe the first 25.
So we're going to index matches starting from the beginning all the way to 25.
Isn't she just slicing a piece of that list for the matches.
The next parameter are going to provide is none because it's essentially asking if you want a mask there.
We don't want a mask and then finally we'll say flags and set that equal to two that essentially defines
how it's actually going to draw the matching.
So go ahead and run that.
And what's really nice about this function is it automatically then sticks together both your a target
image here that your queering and then the secondary larger image and then it's going to draw lines
of where it thinks it found that matches.
According to this detecting compute.
And you'll notice this one actually doesn't do that well.
We'll see some other ones in just a little bit that perform much better.
We're going to see Rhys's matches display that.
And here you go.
So here are the top 25 matches features.
You can see right now that none of them are very good.
In fact none of them actually even point to Reese's puffs.
So this sort of brute force protection with or be Scriptures doesn't always work especially if your
image doesn't really look like the target image or the image that you're queering.
And there's a couple of problems of our image.
One is that we have this family size which isn't even present in the box of the other one.
And then the other issue is that it's a little distorted here because it's twisted a little bit and
it's on the bottom.
Plus we have a lot of other objects in this picture that look very similar to the target image.
So for these sort of tasks we're going to need some more sophisticated methods of feature matching.
And we're going to set up those two much better methods.
In part two of this lecture series.
So coming up next we're going to check out brute force matching with SIFF descriptors and the ratio
test and the Flann based matter which we'll be able to detect the match over here on this Reese's puffs
box cereal we'll see at the next lecture.